We are gonna talk about
special case React tools.
So, we're gonna be starting
here on error boundaries.
So, regardless of whether or
not you want to,
sometimes you end up with errors
inside of your components.
Sometimes this is gonna come from things
like malformed API responses that's been
the one that's I've
typically seen the most.
But usually it's things from like outside
of your control maybe it's like user
generated input, right?
They're trying to put something in
there that causes an error that
crashes your app.
You can be kind of defensive with that
with something called an error boundary.
A good example of a usefal error boundary
as I'm building this entire app,
like the entire course website that you
see right now it's built in React, right?
It's built in Next.js, which uses React.
Next.js, has like a error boundary
at the top of your app so
that it can catch your errors and
say like, hey,
there was an error inside of your app,
here's how you can fix it.
That's useful for like developer
tooling and stuff like that as well.
So your app doesn't always need an error
boundary but it's frequently helpful.
So I alluded to in the previous lesson,
that there are some things that
function components that cannot do,
the class components can do.
And this is basically,
mostly it which is a component did catch.
It's a life cycle method
that is only available to
function components that you
cannot do in class components.
So we're gonna go ahead and
build one and then we're going
to wrap I think our details
route with an error boundary.
So I'm gonna write this code here I'll
be honest with you this is mostly
taken directly from the React docs and
it's not that I'm such a huge thing.
It's just that this is basically the only
way to do an error boundary, right?
So let's pop over to our app here and
we're gonna create a new file in source,
and
we're gonna call it ErrorBoundary.jsx.
And we're gonna import
Component from React and
we're gonna important Link
from react router dom.
We're gonna make a class component
you can call it ErrorBoundary and
this extends component.
So state, we're gonna have just one,
we're gonna call it HasError true or
false, what are we gonna put they're
probably false, cuz it start with one.
And you need to create a static method
called getDerivedStateFromError.
Okay, so basically every
time that there's an error,
it's going to call this function and
you're just gonna give it like, okay,
if you encounter an error, this is what
I want you to set the new state to be.
So in our case, if there is an error,
then we want the new state,
to be has error true, right?
So you're just gonna return an object,
it's basically like calling set state,
right, hasError true.
So anytime that there is an error,
then you want it to have an error,
right that tracks.
Some of you might be
wondering what static means,
this is like a ES6 class thing this
is not necessarily a React thing.
If you put a static method on a class,
the way that you would call that
method would be
ErrorBoundary.GetDeriveState, right?
So you would actually call
the method directly on the class and
not necessarily on an instance of
the class right so you don't have like
This is how you instantiate a class,
right?
There's no method on here called
getDerivedStateFromError.
This one's not real because
this is a static method.
So the static method you call
directly on the class itself,
that doesn't make a tonne of sense,
don't worry too much about it.
But that's the difference between and
that's why we have to have static here.
It's because React has to call
it directly on the class and
not necessarily on
an instance of the class.
But again, not super important
only if you're curious.
Okay, so we have our initial state,
we have this get derived states from prop,
and now we're gonna do a method
here called ComponentDidCatch,
which this is a life cycle method.
This accepts error and info so
this is gonna be the actual
error that it caught, right?
And then this is gonna be some additional
info that React will give you.
I just did console.error ErrorBoundary
component caught an error,
whatever you think is gonna be a useful
error message there with error and info.
I'm just doing this to console error.
But, typically you probably would wanna
send this to like a track js or a century
or something like that something that's
like some aggregation of error service.
This would be a perfect place to like,
hey, we're seeing client side errors here.
Ship that off to your
error tracking software.
So service kind of thing, right?
Yeah, Mark.
>> You might have already
covered this a bit, but
why is this a class component
since React 18 came out?
Do we still not have anything for
error boundaries and function components?
>> We do not,
you still have to do it this way.
There's nothing in function components
that allow you to do component did catch.
These two methods here,
are the reason why we have to use a class
component cause there is no
equivalent in function components.
Yeah, good question.
This is as far as I know,
the only case where you still
absolutely must use a class component.
There's other stylistic reasons to
choose to do a class component,
but this is when you have
to use a class component.
Okay, so I'll just leave you
like a little note here.
Typically, you would log this
to something like track JS or
New Relic or something like that.
Okay, and then here we'll put
a render function again every
component has a render function.
You just gonna say,
if this that's.state.hasError then
we're gonna return some
error state like UI.
So I'm just gonna put this in an h2
here of there was an error
with this listing.
We'll put a little link here,
link to just the homepage, click here to,
Go back to the home page, okay?
So, if there's an error, display this,
give them a link to go back to
the homepage so
it kind of gracefully fails for them.
Otherwise we just want to return
this.props.children right?
If there is no error we want this to
just seamlessly pass through right?
Because we're gonna surround the details
route with an error boundary.
And we want details to render just
normally with no interference.
If there is no error and if there is
an error, then we wanted to show this,
that's the idea.
Okay, and then we're going to
export default ErrorBoundary and
that is an ErrorBoundary.
So let's go make details use this
we're gonna go back to details.jsx
we're going to import
ErrorBoundary from ErrorBoundary.
Now, the biggest temptation here would be
to just wrap this with ErrorBoundary like
this, right?
Don't do that, why?
An error boundary can only catch things in
components that are rendered inside of it.
So if I put error boundary here I won't
catch any error that happens in details,
right?
So if I have an issue up here with like
is loading or the use query up here,
it won't catch that because
it's in the same component.
We have to have a component that
wraps inside of so only catches,
errors from components
that are inside of it.
So, I know this is a little weird, but
the way we're gonna do
this is we're gonna make
a function here called
details ErrorBoundary.
And here we're just gonna
return error boundary and
we're gonna put details in inside of it.
And then we're gonna export errors
about details boundary here.
So does this expect any props?
It doesn't.
So our details page doesn't actually
accept any props up here right?
But what is one problem with this if for
whatever reason we started
passing in props to details as of right
now they will get killed right here right?
So because we are not passing
these props into details.
So this would be like one of
the only cases I'd be okay with
you just saying ...props here
using the spread operator here,
because details error boundary
doesn't care about these props at all.
It's meant to be totally seamless and
passed these props through seamlessly,
right?
So this is what I would do here is
basically say like I don't care what
props are coming in just go directly
through the ErrorBoundary and
don't care about what's coming in, right?
Details and restatement have an opinion
of the property go into details.
Does that make sense why we would do that?
Just to be super concrete.
And don't follow me here,
I'm just showing you an example I have
details here let's say for
example, I was passing through,
I don't know const
importantNumber equals 5.
And here I put, importantNumber
equals important Number, so
now I'm passing in this
property to details, right?
And I go back to details.jsx
if I don't do this,
important number will
never make it to here,
right, into these props.
So I have to make sure that these props
are being passed through directly to
details, okay.
That's concretely what I'm
talking about when I say that.
For now, it actually doesn't matter,
right, because we're not
passing anything through.
So if we were doing TypeScript
which you will an intermediate
React you do have to be
more thoughtful about it
Okay so this is now working but
this is it for
an ErrorBoundary,
if we go back to details.jsx.
If there's any error inside of Details or
any component rendered inside of
Details like Carousel for example, this
will get caught at this error boundary.
So let's just see an example here,
we have Carousel here at the beginning
of render here,
I'm just gonna say throw new Error.
The dreaded LOL error.
So now if I go back to my AdoptMe page,
That was just next JS
rendering a bunch of times.
As you can see here, there is an error
with this listing, you should go back and
so it doesn't crash, right?
Now you can click here and
it'll go back here.
So it's catching this error here, if you
look at our console here you can see
ErrorBoundary component caught an error.
This is cuz it's calling
the component did catch, right?
All right this is the error
message that we wrote here and
it's getting the derive state from error.
So therefore, this is all working
the way that we intended.
Yeah, question.
>> And this error boundary
is totally reusable like
we could wrap pretty much any
component with an expected?
>> Absolutely.
So what I would typically do,
we made a very not reasonable cuz
it's displaying this message, right?
The way that you can handle this is
you can basically make a prop here.
So instead of returning
this error message,
you would return this
.props.errorComponent.
Right and
now this is just gonna display that and
if we go back to Details
we would have to provide
to our error boundary here error
component equals blah right?
And then now this is super reusable
right this error boundary could be used
anywhere because you can put any
error message you want in there right
So, yes, very reusable.
I'm very much, I think I've mentioned
this previously in the class,
but I'm very much the person who's like,
let's wait until we repeat ourselves
a couple times before we abstract, right?
So right now this is the only error
boundary we have in our apps I'm totally
fine just dumping directly in
the message that I wanna put here.
But if I start using this two three four
times then I'll make it more reusable.
But that is a huge temptation with React
something that I see people stumble over
all the time is they wanna
make all these very elegant,
reusable components for
one use case, right?
So you're just adding complexity for
really no use.
So yeah, my invitation is to not do
that were to repeat, I'm usually again,
I say read it twice on the third
time think about abstracting
Okay, let's remove our error here.
Okay, other questions?
Anything about errors kind of useful?
I'll see a lot of people like
wrap their entire app, right?
So they'll come back to the app.jsx level,
and
then they'll just like
put error boundary here.
Makes sense like if you just want to like
have a generalized hey, there was an error
in the app, we're gonna send you back
to the homepage kind of that error.
And I'll see people do like
very fine granular ones,
it just depends on what
your apps use cases.
Yeah, Mark.
>> So where would you wrap
specific component versus
like higher up the tree and the errors.
>> That's going to be very much to taste.
So my personal opinion on it is If I
had a component where I expected
there to be errors, and
like a really good example that,
would be like I used to
work on reddit.com, right?
And I used to work on
like the Reddit redesign.
So, we had the like authoring, what you
see what you get kind of editor, right?
Those things just have errors
because it's user input,
user input is just rife with errors,
right?
So that'd be a really good use case
to like gracefully handle errors and
coming from a user.
That would be a very specific use case
of like, okay, this is user input,
this is going to be right for errors.
This is a really good place for
me to try and be very intentional.
About trying to catch an error versus,
I don't know,
something like my site here, right?
There's not really gonna be much errors
on a pretty static course website, right?
So in this particular case, I don't have
an error boundary on this, by the way.
But if I wanted to have one, then I would
probably just have one top level one.
I mean, it's basically the same logic
that goes through your head as like,
when am I using throw catch?
No or rather a try catch, not throw catch,
you don't use try catch everywhere, right?
You use it in specific cases when
you think there might be an error.
You can think of error boundaries as
basically the catch of the React world.
Because it literally is.
[LAUGH]